what is cloud computing?
Answer:
Cloud computing is is the conveyance of processing administrations—including servers, 
stockpiling, information bases, organizing, programming, examination, and knowledge—over the Internet ("the cloud") to 
offer quicker advancement, adaptable assets, and economies of scale. You regularly pay just for cloud administrations 
you use, assisting you with bringing down your working expenses, run your framework all the more proficiently, and 
scale as your business needs change.

What are the different types of Cloud?
Answer:
there are three types of clouds that are mentuoned below:
1. private 
A private cloud alludes to distributed computing assets utilized solely by a solitary business or association.
 A private cloud can be actually situated on the organization's on location datacenter. A few organizations likewise
 pay outsider specialist co-ops to have their private cloud. A private cloud is one in which the administrations 
and foundation are kept up with on a private organization.
2. hybird 
join public and private mists, bound together by innovation that permits information and applications to be divided 
among them. By permitting information and applications to move among private and public mists, a half and half cloud 
gives your business more noteworthy adaptability, greater arrangement choices, and advances your current framework, 
security, and consistence.
3. public
are claimed and worked by an outsider cloud specialist organizations, which convey their registering assets, 
similar to servers and capacity, over the Internet. Microsoft Azure is an illustration of a public cloud. With a public 
cloud, all equipment, programming, and other supporting foundation is claimed and overseen by the cloud supplier. 
You access these administrations and deal with your record utilizing an internet browser.

What are the cloud service models?
Answer:
there are three cloud service models that are mentoned bellow:
1. SaaS
Programming as a Service offers applications that are gotten to over the web and are not overseen by your organization, 
however by the product supplier. This alleviates your association from the consistent strain of programming upkeep, 
framework the board, network security, information accessibility, and the wide range of various functional issues engaged
 with keeping applications fully operational. SaaS charging is ordinarily founded on elements like number of clients, 
utilization time, measure of information put away, and number of exchanges handled. This help model has the biggest piece
 of the pie in distributed computing; as indicated by Gartner, its deals will arrive at 117 billion USD continuously 
2021. Current applications for SaaS incorporate Field Service arrangements, framework checking arrangements, schedulers 
and that's just the beginning.
2. PaaS
Stage as a Service is somewhere between Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS). It offers 
admittance to a cloud-based climate in which clients can construct and convey applications without the need of introducing 
and working with IDEs (Integrated Development Environments, which are frequently pricey. Also, clients can frequently 
modify the elements they need included with their membership. As indicated by Gartner, PaaS has the littlest piece of the 
pie of the three assistance models, with an extended income of 27 billion USD constantly 2021. In the present market, 
PaaS suppliers offer applications like Microsoft Azure (likewise IaaS), Google App Engine, and Apache Stratos.
3. IaaS
Framework as a help offers a normalized method of obtaining registering abilities on request and over the web. Such assets
incorporate storage spaces, networks, handling power, and virtual private servers. These are charged under a "pay more 
only as costs arise" model where you are charged by variables, for example, how much stockpiling you use or the measure 
of handling power you devour over a certain time interval. In this assistance model, clients don't have to oversee 
framework, it is dependent upon the supplier to ensure the contracted measure of assets and accessibility. As per Gartner,
 this assistance model is guage to develop by 35.9% in 2018[2]. IaaS administrations offered today, incorporate Google 
Cloud Platform and Amazon EC2.