Assignment 1
Zahra Hasan
Sp18-bse-058


Q1. What is cloud computing?
Ans. Cloud computing is on-demand access, via the internet, to computing resources—applications, servers (physical servers and virtual servers), 
data storage, development tools, networking capabilities, and more—hosted at a remote data center managed by a cloud services provider (or CSP). 
The CSP makes these resources available for a monthly subscription fee or bills them according to usage.
Compared to traditional on-premises IT, and depending on the cloud services you select, cloud computing helps do the following:

i) Lower IT costs
ii) Improve agility and time-to-value
iii) Scale more easily and cost-effectively


Q2. What are the different types of Cloud?
Ans. There are 4 main types of cloud computing: 

i) Private clouds:
Private clouds are loosely defined as cloud environments solely dedicated to a single end user or group, where the environment usually runs behind that user or 
group's firewall. All clouds become private clouds when the underlying IT infrastructure is dedicated to a single customer with completely isolated access.
But private clouds no longer have to be sourced from on-prem IT infrastructure. Organizations are now building private clouds on rented, vendor-owned data 
centers located off-premises, which makes any location and ownership rules obsolete. This has also led to a number of private cloud subtypes, including:
1.Managed private clouds
2.Dedicated clouds

ii) Public clouds:
Public clouds are cloud environments typically created from IT infrastructure not owned by the end user. Some of the largest public cloud providers include 
Alibaba Cloud, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, IBM Cloud, and Microsoft Azure. Traditional public clouds always ran off-premises, but today's public 
cloud providers have started offering cloud services on clients’ on-premise data centers. This has made location and ownership distinctions obsolete.

iii) Hybrid clouds:
A hybrid cloud is a seemingly single IT environment created from multiple environments connected through local area networks (LANs), wide area networks (WANs), 
virtual private networks (VPNs), and/or APIs. The characteristics of hybrid clouds are complex and the requirements can differ, depending on whom you ask. 
For example, a hybrid cloud may need to include:

1.At least 1 private cloud and at least 1 public cloud
2.2 or more private clouds
3.2 or more public clouds
4.A bare-metal or virtual environment connected to at least 1 public cloud or private cloud

But every IT system becomes a hybrid cloud when apps can move in and out of multiple separate—yet connected—environments. At least a few of those environments 
need to be sourced from consolidated IT resources that can scale on demand. And all those environments need to be managed as a single environment using an 
integrated management and orchestration platform.

iv) Multiclouds:
Multiclouds are a cloud approach made up of more than 1 cloud service, from more than 1 cloud vendor—public or private. All hybrid clouds are multiclouds, 
but not all multiclouds are hybrid clouds. Multiclouds become hybrid clouds when multiple clouds are connected by some form of integration or orchestration.
A multicloud environment might exist on purpose (to better control sensitive data or as redundant storage space for improved disaster recovery) or by accident 
(usually the result of shadow IT). Either way, having multiple clouds is becoming more common across enterprises that seek to improve security and performance 
through an expanded portfolio of environments.


Q3. What are the cloud service models?
Ans. There are three cloud service models. IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service), PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service) , and SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) are the three 
most common models of cloud services, and it’s not uncommon for an organization to use all three.

i) SaaS (Software-as-a-Service):
SaaS—also known as cloud-based software or cloud applications—is application software that’s hosted in the cloud and that you access and use via a web browser, 
a dedicated desktop client, or an API that integrates with your desktop or mobile operating system. In most cases, SaaS users pay a monthly or annual 
subscription fee; some may offer ‘pay-as-you-go’ pricing based on your actual usage. 
In addition to the cost savings, time-to-value, and scalability benefits of cloud, SaaS offers the following:
-Automatic upgrades
-Protection from data loss

ii) PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service):
PaaS provides software developers with on-demand platform—hardware, complete software stack, infrastructure, and even development tools—for running, developing, 
and managing applications without the cost, complexity, and inflexibility of maintaining that platform on-premises. With PaaS, the cloud provider hosts 
everything—servers, networks, storage, operating system software, middleware, databases—at their data center. Developers simply pick from a menu to ‘spin up’ 
servers and environments they need to run, build, test, deploy, maintain, update, and scale applications. Today, PaaS is often built around containers, a 
virtualized compute model one step removed from virtual servers. Containers virtualize the operating system, enabling developers to package the application with 
only the operating system services it needs to run on any platform, without modification and without need for middleware.
Red Hat OpenShift is a popular PaaS built around Docker containers and Kubernetes, an open source container orchestration solution that automates deployment, 
scaling, load balancing, and more for container-based applications.

iii) IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service):
IaaS provides on-demand access to fundamental computing resources–physical and virtual servers, networking, and storage—over the internet on a pay-as-you-go basis. 
IaaS enables end users to scale and shrink resources on an as-needed basis, reducing the need for high, up-front capital expenditures or unnecessary on-premises 
or ‘owned’ infrastructure and for overbuying resources to accommodate periodic spikes in usage. In contrast to SaaS and PaaS (and even newer PaaS computing models 
such as containers and serverless), IaaS provides the users with the lowest-level control of computing resources in the cloud. IaaS was the most popular cloud 
computing model when it emerged in the early 2010s. While it remains the cloud model for many types of workloads, use of SaaS and PaaS is growing at a much 
faster rate.