Umber Zahid
Sp18-bse-045

Question 1: What is cloud computing?

cloud computing is the delivery of computing services including servers, storage, databases, networking, software,
 analytics, and intelligence over the Internet to offer faster innovation, flexible resources, and economies of 
 scale.

Categories:
Cloud Computing can be divided into three main categories:
1.	Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
2.	Platform as a service (PaaS)
3.	Software as a service (SaaS)
A cloud can be Public or Private:
Private or public, the goal of cloud computing is to provide easy, scalable access to computing resources and IT
 services.

Private cloud:
A private cloud is a proprietary network or a data center that supplies hosted services to a limited number of 
people, with certain access and permissions settings.

Public cloud:
A public cloud sells services to anyone on the internet.

Working:
Cloud computing works by allowing client devices to access data over the internet, from remote servers, databases
and computers.An internet network connection links the front end (includes the accessing client device, browser,
network and cloud software applications) with the back end, which consists of databases, servers and computers). 
The back end functions as a repository, storing data that is accessed by the front end.Communications between the
front and back ends are managed by a central server. The central server relies on protocols to facilitate the 
exchange of data. The central server uses both software and middleware to manage connectivity between different
client devices and cloud servers. Typically, there will be a dedicated server for each individual application.


Question 2: What are the different types of Cloud?

There are four main categories of cloud computing are:
Public Cloud, Private cloud, Hybrid cloud, Community cloud

1.	Public Cloud:
Some public cloud examples include those offered by Amazon, Microsoft, or Google. These companies provide both 
services and infrastructure, which are shared by all customers.Public clouds typically have massive amounts of 
available space, which translates into easy scalability. A public
cloud is often recommended for software development and collaborative projects. Companies can design their 
applications to be portable, so that a project that’s tested in the public cloud can be moved to the private 
cloud for production.

2.	Private Cloud
Private clouds usually reside behind a firewall and are utilized by a single organization. Authorized users can 
access, utilize, and store data in the private cloud from anywhere, just like they could with a public cloud. The
 difference is that no one else can access or utilize those computing resources

3.	Hybrid Cloud
Hybrid clouds combine public clouds with private clouds. They are designed to allow the two platforms to interact
seamlessly, with data and applications moving smoothly from one to the other. It’s the perfect solution for a 
business or organization who needs a little bit of both options, usually dependent upon industry and size.
There are two commonly used types of hybrid cloud architecture. Cloudbursting uses a private cloud as its primary
cloud, storing data and housing proprietary applications in a secure environment. When service demands increase, 
however, the private cloud’s infrastructure may not have the capacity to keep up. That’s where the public cloud 
comes in.The second type of hybrid cloud model also runs most applications and houses data in a private cloud 
environment, but outsources non-critical applications to a public cloud provider.

4.	Community Cloud
Although not as commonly used as the other three models, community clouds are a collaborative, multi-tenant 
platform used by several distinct organizations to share the same applications. The users are typically operating 
within the same industry or field and share common concerns in terms of security, compliance, and performance.
In essence, a community cloud is a private cloud that functions much like a public cloud. The platform itself is 
managed privately, either in a data center or on-premises. Authorized users are then segmented within that 
environment. These deployments are commonly used by government agencies, healthcare organizations, financial 
services firms, and other professional communities.

Question 3: What are the cloud service models?

The three models are known as Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Infrastructure as 
a Service (IaaS).

1.	Software as a Service (SaaS):
Software as a Service offers applications that are accessed over the web and are not managed by your company, 
but by the software provider. This relieves your organization from the constant pressure of software maintenance,
 infrastructure management, network security, data availability, and all the other operational issues involved 
 with keeping applications up and running. 

2.	Platform as a Service (PaaS):
Platform as a Service is halfway between Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS). 
It offers access to a cloud-based environment in which users can build and deliver applications without the need 
of installing and working with IDEs (Integrated Development Environments), which are often very expensive. 
Additionally, users can often customize the features they want included with their subscription.

3.	Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS):
Infrastructure as a service offers a standardized way of acquiring computing capabilities on demand and over 
the web. Such resources include storage facilities, networks, processing power, and virtual private servers. 
In this service model, customers do not need to manage infrastructure, it is up to the provider to guarantee 
the contracted amount of resources and availability.




